---
layout: default
parent: Chapter3
grand_parent: Materials
title: Example 3.2
nav_order: 2
---

# Example 3.2: Optimizing Cobalt(III) Acetylacetone
{: .fs-9 }

## Objectives

- Building a more difficult structure with Chemcraft.

## Procedure

When trying to build a more difficult structure with Chemcraft, we need to start with simple building blocks and then combine them.

Check this [tutorial video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_UsVhvuye0) for how to construct a multidentate ligand in Chemcraft: 

1. Open Chemcraft navigate to the Add Fragment menu. Co(acac)3 is not available prebuilt so we need to start with the individual components.

2. There is no prebuilt acetylacetone fragment but there is something similar in the fragments library. Under the `Add Fragment` menu, navigate to `multidentate ligand` and `Acetylacetonato` and add it to the workspace.

3. Now you need to set the point group to C2v. This is so that any additional atoms added will be added to the correct symmetry position. To do this, navigate to the `Edit` menu and select `Set Point Group...`. Select `Cnv` > `C2v` and click `OK`.

4. Now that the fragment is flat on the board we can add the cobalt atom. The dummy atom(the blue one that has atomic number 0), will serve as a hinge that we can rotate the fragment around. Set the position of the dummy like in the video so we can position the oxygens better.

5. Duplicate your ligand fragment by selecting each atom in the fragment and press `Ctrl + c` to copy. Then press `Ctrl + v` to paste. Click on the cobalt atom and your ligand should be duplicated.

6. To rotate the ligand around select `Drag atoms` and choose the option `Drag Fracments`. Rotate the ligand around preferably 120 degrees from eachother.

7. Lastly, we need to rotate the ligand around the Co-Dummy bond to create the staggered formation you see in the book. Select the two atoms you want to rotate around and navigate to `Edit` select `Rotate along selected`.

8. Delete your dummy atoms and rebond the oxygens to the coblat atom. Then set the final point group to D3. Add the missing methyl groups to each of the terminal hydrogens on the side and you are done!
